DEVLOG.md, before:

## [03-09-2025]

Work Done: 
    1. Downloaded Dependencies for both Backend and Frontend.
    2. Used **MongoDB Atlas** and setup with **MongoDB Compass** for visualization.
    3. Build the '.env' and 'cors' Setup.
            i. **.env** for storing Database URI, Secret Keys etc.
            ii. **cor**s for establishing communication between frontend and backend 
    4. Config the Database.
    5. Created Models.
            i. **'userModel'**: for string User Data.
            ii. **'pendingSignupModel'**: for stroing the User Data, OTP and the Expiry time of OTP for 2 Step Verification.
    6. Created APIs.
            i. **'pendingSignup'**: It helps us to store the User Data, OTP and OTP Expiry Time. It also sends Gmail using 'nodemailer' to send the OTP to the user. It creates the document in 'pendingSignupModel'.
            ii. **'signup'**: It helps us to store the User Data. It has basically two parts. One is OTP validation and second is User Creation in 'userModel'. It creates the document in 'userModel'.
Problems:
    1. Setting up the database entirely on Localhost. So it is now totally shifted to Atlas.

To-Do:
    1. Frontend Setups and Basic Page Building.


## [04-09-2025]

Work Done:

    1. Build a new API and corresponding route, **'setUsername'** & **/setusername**, it helps the new users to set an unique username. First it checks for if there any same username exists or not. If not then it will set the new username and move the user to main **Feed Page**.
    2. Define the Routes for the APIs.
            i. **/pendingsignup**: For 'pendingSignup' API.
            ii. **/signup**: For 'signup' API.
    3. Setup the Basic Frontend Setup (like- routes, tailwindcss etc.).
    4. Created the Basic Components (like- 'Layout.jsx', 'Navbar.jsx', 'ProtectedRoutes.jsx').
    5. Created Some Dummy Pages (like- 'Landing.jsx', 'Feed.jsx').
    6. Created the Auth Pages (like- 'Signup.jsx', 'SignupVerify.jsx', 'Login.jsx', 'LoginVerify.jsx', 'Username.jsx').
    7. Connected the Frontend and Backend for 'Signup.jsx', 'SignupVerify.jsx', 'Username.jsx'.
    8. Stored the **AuthToken**, **User Details** (except Password) etc. in **localStorage**. 

Problems:

    1. Some API Fetching Problems. Sometimes API gets mismatched.

To-Do:
    1. Build the required APIs for Login Fetaures.
    2. Connect the Backend and Frontend.

Commit message:

feature(Login & Minimal Dashboard Preview): Here the user can login and able to view there own profile.

DEVLOG.md, after:

### [03-09-2025]

Work Done: 
    1. Downloaded Dependencies for both Backend and Frontend.
    2. Used **MongoDB Atlas** and setup with **MongoDB Compass** for visualization.
    3. Build the '.env' and 'cors' Setup.
            i. **.env** for storing Database URI, Secret Keys etc.
            ii. **cor**s for establishing communication between frontend and backend 
    4. Config the Database.
    5. Created Models.
            i. **'userModel'**: for string User Data.
            ii. **'pendingSignupModel'**: for stroing the User Data, OTP and the Expiry time of OTP for 2 Step Verification.
    6. Created APIs.
            i. **'pendingSignup'**: It helps us to store the User Data, OTP and OTP Expiry Time. It also sends Gmail using 'nodemailer' to send the OTP to the user. It creates the document in 'pendingSignupModel'.
            ii. **'signup'**: It helps us to store the User Data. It has basically two parts. One is OTP validation and second is User Creation in 'userModel'. It creates the document in 'userModel'.
Problems:
    1. Setting up the database entirely on Localhost. So it is now totally shifted to Atlas.

To-Do:
    1. Frontend Setups and Basic Page Building.


### [04-09-2025]

Work Done:

    1. Build a new API and corresponding route, **'setUsername'** & **/setusername**, it helps the new users to set an unique username. First it checks for if there any same username exists or not. If not then it will set the new username and move the user to main **Feed Page**.
    2. Define the Routes for the APIs.
            i. **/pendingsignup**: For 'pendingSignup' API.
            ii. **/signup**: For 'signup' API.
    3. Setup the Basic Frontend Setup (like- routes, tailwindcss etc.).
    4. Created the Basic Components (like- 'Layout.jsx', 'Navbar.jsx', 'ProtectedRoutes.jsx').
    5. Created Some Dummy Pages (like- 'Landing.jsx', 'Feed.jsx').
    6. Created the Auth Pages (like- 'Signup.jsx', 'SignupVerify.jsx', 'Login.jsx', 'LoginVerify.jsx', 'Username.jsx').
    7. Connected the Frontend and Backend for 'Signup.jsx', 'SignupVerify.jsx', 'Username.jsx'.
    8. Stored the **AuthToken**, **User Details** (except Password) etc. in **localStorage**. 

Problems:

    1. Some API Fetching Problems. Sometimes API gets mismatched.

To-Do:
    1. Build the required APIs for Login Fetaures.
    2. Connect the Backend and Frontend.

### [05-09-2025]

Work done:
    1. Built a Model, **pendingLoginModel**, which stores the OTP and its Expiry Time for the applicants who applied for Login.
    2. Built 3 APIs.
            i. **/pendingLogin**: This API will check and validate the user based on email and password. It also performs the 2-Step verification path, so it generates and sends the OTP to the user and store it to **pendingLoginModel**.
            ii. **/login**: This API will find the user and assign a Token that helps to grant the access of application to the user.
            iii. **/getUser**: This API will find the document totally based on username.
    3. Integrated all 3 APIs to the Frontend. Built the Dashboard only with the username, name.

Problems:
    1. Problems arrived when I tried to get the name out off 'user' useState. It sometimes shows me undefined but at last adding a ternary operator(?), it resolve.

To-Do:
    1. Build the AuthMiddleware, Contest Model, Modifiy the User Model for separating set of users as 'User' & 'Organizer'. I am not clarified with the roles, but I will figure it out.
    2. Build the respective Frontend Routes and pages.

Achievments:
    After 3 days of consistent development, I built 6 Auth APIs (Signup, Login & Fetch User), set up both backend & frontend routes, designed minimal but effective UI/UX.
    While building this project, I figured out why real-world products uses 'username' in there application over 'email/phone'. Although 'email/phone' helps developer to easily access the user documents from the Model but it becomes more vulnerable while forwarding the data to the frontend. But the 'username' will act like an unique key which will help me to find the accurate document like 'email/phone'. Unlike 'email/phone', it will secure, because it doesnot deal will direct and personal details.
